types of sentiment analysis -

Fine-grained Sentiment Analysis: This goes beyond just positive, negative, or neutral. It involves very specific ratings, like a 5-star rating, for example.
Emotion detection: This aims to detect emotions like happiness, frustration, anger, sadness, etc. The biggest challenge here is being able to accurately identify these emotions in text.
Aspect-based Sentiment Analysis: This is generally used to understand specific aspects of a certain product or service. For example, in a review like “The battery life of this phone is great, but the screen is not very clear”, the sentiment towards the battery life is positive, but it’s negative towards the screen.
Multilingual sentiment analysis: This can be particularly challenging because the same word can convey different sentiments in different languages.
Intent Analysis: This goes a step further to understand the user’s intention behind a certain statement. For example, a statement like “I would need a car” might indicate a purchasing intent.

Challenges in Sentiment analysis -
Sarcasm and Irony
Contextual Understanding
Negations and Double Negatives
Emojis and Slang
Multilingual Sentiment Analysis
Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis

Basic Python Libraries
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import seaborn as sns
from wordcloud import WordCloud
import re

Natural Language Processing ->
nltk – Natural Language Toolkit is a collection of libraries for natural language processing
stopwords – a collection of words that don’t provide any meaning to a sentence
WordNetLemmatizer – used to convert different forms of words into a single item but still keeping the context intact.

import nltk
from nltk.corpus import stopwords
from nltk.stem import WordNetLemmatizer

Scikit-Learn (Machine Learning Library for Python) ->
CountVectorizer – transform text to vectors
GridSearchCV – for hyperparameter tuning
RandomForestClassifier – machine learning algorithm for classification

from sklearn.feature_extraction.text import CountVectorizer
from sklearn.model_selection import GridSearchCV
from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestClassifier


Evaluation Metrics ->
Accuracy Score: no. of correctly classified instances/total no. of instances
Precision Score: the ratio of correctly predicted instances over total positive instances
Recall Score: the ratio of correctly predicted instances over total instances in that class
Roc Curve: a plot of true positive rate against false positive rate
Classification Report: report of precision, recall and f1 score
Confusion Matrix: a table used to describe the classification models

from sklearn.metrics import accuracy_score,precision_score,recall_score,confusion_matrix,roc_curve,classification_report
from scikitplot.metrics import plot_confusion_matrix




